Information wants to be Free
======================================================================

Information wants to be free.  Censorship sucks.  Having your account yanked 
because some censorious idiot doesn't like you discussing hacking tips and 
tricks in USENET sucks.  Being tortured to death by some totalitarian 
country's military police for speaking the truth about government corruption 
sucks even more.  

Have friends who have been hounded by the Feds, SPA software police, or 
system admins who believe in security by obscurity?  Had nasty threats made by 
censorious system admins for helpfully drawing their attention to flaws in their
systems security?  Ever had a control freak try to get your web pages
censored because they don't like its content, or simply because they get their 
kicks harassing people?  Ever wanted to publish something on the 'Net but felt 
intimidated by censors?

Do you consider that free speech is your right as guaranteed by the first 
amendment of the US constitution, and do you therefore also consider it your 
right to speak anonymously?  There are lots of reasons to protect the ability 
to speak anonymously.  Anonymous speech is required for truly free speech.  
Strongly anonymous free speech is the freest speech of all. If you're going to 
preserve your ability to speak anonymously, and protect your right to free 
speech you might as well do it properly...

Want to do something to help free speech?  Want to piss off the 'Net censors?  
Want to piss off censorious Governments?  Read on...


What is the Eternity Service?
======================================================================

The Eternity Service is a distributed data-haven, it takes a different
approach to ensuring unpopular content can be published.  Traditionally 
unpopular content has been surreptitiously exchanged via DCCs in IRC, or PGP 
encrypted email, or FSP, or in funny named directories via FTP or via agreed 
file names in incoming directories set drwx-wx-wx.  Other kinds of unpopular 
content have been published on web pages for a short time until the censor 
gets to work and threatens the ISP, the publisher's employee, and the publisher 
with law suits.  Sometimes these web pages get mirrored, if there is someone
interested, and spoiling for a fight, or if the content is only censored by 
force of law in one jurisdiction.

The Eternity Service deals with censorship more directly: it confronts the 
problem in a more general way with the aim that anyone should be able to 
publish anything anonymously in a convenient persistent, uncensorable 
data-haven.

So in a nut-shell that is the design goal of the eternity service, to allow 
anyone to publish material which others would like to censor. For convenience 
the publishing medium addressed is the World Wide Web.

Systems for publishing anonymously in USENET news and email already exist: 
cypherpunks type I and type II (mixmaster) remailers.


Why the name `Eternity Service'?
======================================================================

There is a cryptographic paper by Ross Anderson called "The Eternity Service",
which is where the idea for this implementation came from.  I rather liked 
Ross's name for his conceptual service, and instead of thinking up some other 
name I just "borrowed" his name.  Readers might find his paper interesting, 
it's on the web in htmlized form at:

    http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/rja14/eternity/eternity.html

Ross's design is quite ambitious, so I simplified his design in developing the 
software included with this article.

My implementation shares Ross's main design goal, which is to create a
censorship-proof, long-term document store, but its design has been made much 
simpler and less ambitious initially to make it easier to implement.  The main 
simplification is that I built the design on top of an existing hard-to-censor 
distributed distribution channel: `alt' USENET newsgroups.  This design is 
described in the next sections.

The motivation for providing a simplified version was to have something people 
could use practically, today.  Another reason is that by releasing this 
design, and it's implementation, it allows you, the reader, to play with it, 
and to contribute to it, improve it in a piecewise fashion in the good 
tradition of free software on the 'Net.  The design calls for many eternity 
servers to be in existence to make it hard to censor.

At time of writing a mailing list exists for discussion on using and improving 
the eternity service.  Instructions on how to subscribe the eternity mailing 
list are given at the bottom of this article.


USENET and distributed systems
======================================================================

The Internet was built to survive nuclear attack.  It would survive such an
attack because it is a distributed system.  Distributed systems are hard to 
break, and therefore, hard to censor.  USENET, particularly the `alt` 
newsgroups offer the most amazing chaotic discussion areas.  The articles 
which are posted often contain materials which would be considered illegal in
many jurisdictions.  And yet USENET lives, and `alt` USENET newsgroups thrive. 
Extremely well funded attackers have tried to remove individual `alt` USENET 
groups, and to censor posts in alt USENET groups.  They have all failed.

The reason that USENET is hard to attack is because it is a distributed
system.  The network of news feeds has some redundancy.  USENET articles enter 
the news distribution network from anywhere in the network.  If a censor in 
one country succeeds in persuading a news site to censor its feed and not
carry particular alt groups, it doesn't affect the overall system that much.  
There are lots of other nodes carrying the groups, disgruntled users will 
switch ISPs, and disgruntled down-feed sites will switch feeds.  The system 
routes *around* censorship.  There are just so many USENET admins with 
individual opinions, and commercial interests in carrying groups users want to
read, that USENET can not die.

It occurred to me in trying to design a simplified eternity service, that it 
would be useful to borrow some of Usenet's indestructible nature.  USENET is 
part of the landscape; it's here to stay.  If we build a new distributed 
distribution system from scratch, to start with there won't be many nodes.  
The censor will have any easy time censoring a few nodes, he'll just go and 
harass each of them in turn.

With USENET on the other hand, it has been around for so long, and is carried 
at so many sites that it would be a huge task for a censor to even have a 
significant affect on USENET.

So, the design of my eternity server aims to allow operators to point the 
finger at USENET and say: "that's where the content is coming from, if you 
want to censor anything go attack USENET".

My eternity server design is a service designed to blur the differences 
between USENET news and the Web.  It provides an interface which makes a 
stream of encrypted USENET news articles look like WWW pages with a persistent 
URL.  As the default disclaimer for eternity servers says:

    Note to censors: Eternity servers are specialized search engines for
    reading web documents from USENET news. The pages you request are
    actually USENET news posts which the server is searching for,
    reformatting and forwarding to you. The administrator of this server
    has no control over the content of USENET news, and will not be held
    responsible for any documents you instruct this server to forward
    for you.


Eternity Server design
======================================================================

Once you accept the idea that it would be nice to borrow, or build upon some 
of USENET news's strength as a uncensorable distribution mechanism, the next 
issue is achieving this, technically.  The main differences between USENET 
news articles and WWW pages is that USENET is transient, the articles expire 
in newsgroups, and that USENET articles have no persistent globally 
addressable locator.  USENET is not as convenient as the Web; there are no 
hypertext links between articles, and there are no inline images.

Eternity service articles are WWW pages specially formatted and posted to 
USENET news.  The eternity server reads news and translates Web page requests 
into GROUP and ARTICLE commands to an NNTP news server (or file system 
accesses to a local news spool).  (The default list of newsgroups to read 
consists of one group: alt.anonymous.messages).

Web pages are often updated, as one of the interesting aspects of the WWW as a 
publishing medium is that it allows people to maintain up-to-date information. 
This maintains interest and keeps people coming back to an interesting site to 
see what else the author has collected, or what other related pages have been 
added.  A sense of community can be built up with others submitting interesting
links, corrections, and tips to the author.

To provide the possibility of updating web pages with the eternity server, the 
eternity formatting convention allows submitted web pages to be signed with 
PGP.  This ensures that no one else can replace your pages with other pages.  
Being able to replace your page with a blank page would allow a censor to 
temporarily censor you.  (Only temporary because you could always replace the 
blank page with the real document again).

With a PGP signature this is prevented... and the system becomes such that 
eternity virtual domains are very much first-come first-served.


First-come first-served naming
======================================================================

Eternity URLs are all under the non-existent Top Level Domain (TLD) "eternity".
(Other TLDs being .com, .org, .edu, .ai, etc) Eternity URLs are therefore of 
the form:

    http://*eternity/*

Where * represents any string of characters.

On the Internet domain names must be resolved to IP addresses via Domain Name 
Servers (DNS).  The owner of the TLD you desire a domain name in charges you 
for registering a domain.  Internic (who currently has a hotly contested 
monopoly on TLDs .com, .org, and .net), charge $100 for the first 2 years, and 
$50 for each year thereafter.

Eternity domains don't exist in this sense.  There is no root domain server for 
eternity.  You don't need to buy eternity URLs from anyone.  Nobody _can_ own 
an eternity URL in the normal sense.

The first person to submit a document with a URL:

    http://bluebox.eternity/

gets it.  If that person signed the submitted document with PGP, no one will 
be able to take over that URL.  If that person signed the submitted page with 
PGP and threw away the key, it would be uncensorable for all time.  They 
couldn't even remove the document themselves if they wanted to.  Throwing away 
the key might be a good idea if the publisher isn't publishing anonymously and 
expects reprisals.

The fact that one user has submitted a signed web page for 
http://bluebox.eternity/ doesn't stop BlackBeard from putting up his design at:

    http://bluebox.eternity/blackbeard/

That is to say ownership of any given URL, even the top level URL of a virtual 
domain, doesn't give any control over who could submit documents in that 
virtual domain.  Of course you don't have to link to their pages.  But those 
pages will show in a directory search of your virtual site.


Directory searches
======================================================================

Submitted eternity news articles can set options controlling whether or not 
the document is listed in the index.  The choice is either "exdirectory" (the 
default) or "directory".  This is useful because if you created the URL for 
http://bluebox.eternity/, you might like to include some inline images, or 
diagrams, or a series of other pages hypertext linked from that page.  So you 
would set option "directory" for the main page http://bluebox.eternity/, and 
set all the inline images and smaller pages linked from it to "exdirectory", 
as a convention to save the directory becoming cluttered up with junk.

You can also use "exdirectory" if you don't want to generally advertise your 
page.  Note this is not all that secure if you access your page via a public 
access eternity server, as the server operator could modify the server to 
record all exdirectory URLs.

You can request a listing of all eternity pages at an eternity server by 
filling in the form with virtual URL containing a wild-card:

    http://*

(Exdirectory documents will not be listed.)

You can also include an option to give a small description (a maximum of 60
characters) which will be listed beside your virtual URL when someone does 
such a search.

You can narrow the search to just list all root eternity documents with:

    http://*/

Which will find:

    http://eternity/
    http://bluebox.eternity/

but not:

    http://test.eternity/example1/


You can also do:

    http://bluebox.eternity/*

which will find:

    http://bluebox.eternity/
    http://bluebox.eternity/blackbeard/


You can combine *s to find what you want.  Advanced searches are possible:

    http://*box*.eternity/*blue*

and so on.

Eternity materials are likely to be targets for censors, and it is possible 
that they might try to censor the directory listing itself.  Even the URL 
could suffer.  (Did you know that Internic turned down some guy who wanted to 
register `fuck.com'?)  I'm sure someone creative could up with something to 
upset a censor in the 60 characters allocated for URL descriptions too.

For these reasons the eternity server operator has the option to disable 
directory service.  With this option disabled looking up URLs with wild-cards 
(*s) in them will get back a notice explaining that directory listings service 
has not been turned on at this server.

Servers with directory service turned off make less useful servers, so it is 
hoped that most eternity server operators don't have to do this.  However, an 
eternity server with directory service turned off still works normally for 
accessing known URLs, and you could maintain the directory listing yourself, 
or use a directory listing at another site.


Formatting Eternity documents 
======================================================================

Eternity documents submitted as USENET news articles are formatted with PGP.  
There are three of reasons to format messages in USENET to make them not 
immediately readable.

1) It prevents censors from working out which articles correspond to which 
eternity web pages.  Depending on the options chosen this can degrade to just 
obfuscation.  Obfuscation alone however can be useful as censors are often not 
particularly clue-full.

2) PGP includes compression, so the articles are much smaller.

3) If used with highest security options amongst a group of people who follow 
security guidelines it means that a censor will have no way to translate the 
articles back into WWW pages, or even of obtaining the URL.

To demonstrate the formatting requirements for eternity page submissions, we'll
work with an example page, http://bluebox.eternity/.

You'll need an implementation of SHA1 for this.  There is a C implementation, 
and also a perl implementation in the eternity server distribution.  Some 
systems may already have /usr/local/bin/sha1.

(Note: below "echo -n" is used -- on Suns the built-in echo doesn't handle the 
-n flag properly -- you'll have to use /usr/ucb/echo instead)

0) Generate a Nom de Plume

If you are planning to sign your document, you probably won't want to sign it 
with your normal key, so you'll generate a new keypair for the purpose, this 
will be your pseudonym, or Nom de Plume for the purposes of publishing this 
document.  The "-u fred" tells pgp to use that user id.  See pgp documentation 
for how to generate keys (use pgp -kg).

Once you've generated your key, extract it to a file with:

    % pgp -kxa fred fred

where `fred` is your new user name.  It will save the key as "fred.asc".  
We'll use this file below.


1) Sign the document

We create a normal web page such as you might put on your home page.  You can 
view the page with Netscape (or other browser) by opening it as a file URL: 
file:/home/fred/bluebox/index.html to check that it looks OK, and that any 
inline images line up correctly etc.

You can use relative, site relative, and absolute URLs normally in eternity 
documents.  You can also use absolute URLs pointing at other sites in the 
normal way.

To submit index.html as http://bluebox.eternity/ we first use PGP to ASCII 
armor the document.  If we want to sign it at the same time as ASCII armoring 
it, so that we can update it later, we can do:

    % pgp -sa index.html -u fred

There is another option to encrypt as well as sign and armor, which will be 
discussed more below, to do this do:

    % pgp -csa index.html -u fred

If we don't want to sign it, we do this instead:

    % pgp -a index.html

In either case after this operation PGP will create file "index.asc" for us.  
Rename index.asc to something else, say "index" (Another legal combination 
would be to encrypt and not sign with -ca).


2) Set the options

If you signed the document, you need to include the key.  Insert the keyfile 
(fred.asc extracted in step 0 above) into the document "index".  Order is not 
significant.  Then the ASCII armored document (pgp munged html or gif file 
produced in stage 1), the keyfile "fred.asc", and the flags described below 
can be jumbled up in order.

You now have several flags you can include to control how your URL will be 
cached, how it will be displayed in indexes etc.

The flags are:

    URL: http://bluebox.eternity/

The flag URL: sets what the eternity virtual URL will be.  It must have 
.eternity as the virtual TLD.

    Cache: yes
    Cache: encrypted
    Cache: no

Cache settings, choose one of those.  These cache settings override the used 
eternity server's settings if doing so will increase security.  "yes" and "no"
are obvious.  "encrypted" means that the document will be cached but it will 
be encrypted in the cache in such a way that the URL is required to decrypt it.
If the document is exdirectory this means that the server won't know the URL.

    Options: directory
    Options: exdirectory

Choose one of those options.  This flag controls whether the URL will be listed
in the URL index.  "directory" means it will be listed, "exdirectory" means it
will not be listed.  If you give neither option the document defaults to 
exdirectory.

    Description: Freds blue box page

This is the description that will appear in directory listings.  If the 
document is exdirectory there is no point giving a description.

So the file "index" is likely to look something like this once you've finished 
editing it:

    URL: http://bluebox.eternity/
    Cache: yes
    Options: directory
    Description: Freds blue box page

    -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY-----
    ...
    -----END PGP PUBLIC KEY-----

    -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
    ...
    -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----

Where ... indicates the rest of the ASCII armored key or message will be 
displayed.  Some of these parts can be omitted as shown above.  When you are 
submitting an web page update you can omit anything you're not trying to 
change.  (That can be everything, so your updated document has nothing but the 
new message part).  However this is not necessarily a good idea because it 
will not make sense to an eternity server that has not seen the first 
document, for example if your first document doesn't make it via USENET to one
site.

3) Package the document "index" ready for posting

You have a couple of choices here.  

Method A (most common):

Either you can encrypt with PGP -c:

    % pgp -c -z"eternity" index

Method B:

Or you can encrypt with the SHA1 of the URL with 1 prefixed,

    % echo -n 1http://bluebox.eternity/ | sha1
    dab1a32aba30b4e3a9594da143c33d2ba9b00a38
    % pgp -c -z"dab1a32aba30b4e3a9594da143c33d2ba9b00a38" index

Most normal eternity URLs which you're expecting to be indexed on the 
directory services of public access eternity servers should be encrypted with 
the first simpler method.

There's not that much point encrypting with the second method unless your 
document is going to be exdirectory, because once the document gets in the URL 
everyone will know the URL anyway.  It might take a censor a little longer to 
figure out.

If you were planning to only access the document via private, or local 
eternity servers, you can reveal the URL only to those you wish to have access.
However this might not be that secure because people may be able to guess your
URL if it is something common as above.

Method C:

For this reason you have a third option, which is to encrypt at the same time 
as signing and ASCII armoring as described in step 1.  You can combine that 
option with above method B (pgp -c with sha1 of 1<URL>) to conceal the URL.  

Or alternately you can expose the URL by using method 1 above (pgp -c 
-z"eternity"), but have the document encrypted in step 1.  (This would allow 
you to have a directory entry, but the page not accessible without knowing the 
password chosen in step 1 when encrypting.

The result of the last pgp -c operation for any of method A, B, or C will be 
file "index.asc".

4) Post the article anonymously

The subject field of the article should always be the SHA1 hash of the URL:

    % echo -n http://bluebox.eternity/ | sha1
    2e730bcd62dbc63aaedde56c06625abeeb38dd92

Now post the article to USENET news (by default eternity servers read only 
newsgroup alt.anonymous.messages with release 0.10).

You can test your eternity submissions work by installing an eternity server 
on localhost.  If you get stuck you could ask for assistance on the eternity 
mailing list (instructions on subscribing are at the bottom of this article).

To post anonymously you'll need to post via anonymous remailers.  Some 
remailers can post to USENET directly, for other remailers you have to post 
via a mail2news gateway.

Instructions on using remailers, and windows and Unix clients to automate the 
process of using remailers can be found here:

    http://www.stack.nl/~galactus/remailers/

You can find a list of mail2news gateways here:

    http://www.replay.com/mail2news/

People are already working on a nice easy to use CGI interface to eternity 
servers over on the eternity list while I'm typing, so perhaps when you read 
this you won't need to know the above information in such detail.


Caching
======================================================================

With WWW technology, caching is often used to speed up accesses.  There are a 
number of caches in effect with a typical web browsing session.  The Netscape 
browser for instance has both a memory cache, and a disk cache, which are 
configurable in size.  In addition Netscape can be set up to use a proxy cache,
which is a special caching service.  Users of a proxy cache send their web 
requests through it.  The proxy cache checks each request to see if it has it
in the cache, if it does, it can deliver it back if quickly.  If it doesn't it 
will go and fetch whatever URL you are asking for and remember it for next 
time.  A proxy cache would normally be used by a group of web users, perhaps a 
university campus, or an ISPs customers, or a companies employees.

Caches traditionally have some protection from censors -- it's an automated 
process after all -- your average ISP hardly wants to be responsible for the 
contents of the disk on its proxy cache machine.

For performance reasons the eternity server also has a cache.  The cache 
behavior is configurable.  The server operator can set his caching preferences 
when he installs the server by editing eternity.conf.  Possible settings are 
"on", "off" and "encrypted".  Setting cache to "off" is safest, then you have 
no eternity documents on your disk.  The "encrypted" cache option means that 
cached documents are encrypted with PGP -c and the SHA1 hash of a 1 prepended
to the URL.  If the server also turns off directory service, and does no 
logging this provides reasonable deniability of knowledge of contents of 
documents in the cache.  Even with directory service on, it provides cache set 
to "encrypted" provides protection in that the server operator will not know 
the URLs of exdirectory web pages.


Further work
======================================================================

There are a few unimplemented features that could use some work.  These 
features are being discussed on the eternity mailing list (see instructions 
for subscribing below).

A first immediate problem is that the eternity server has no cache replacement 
policy.  Your eternity cache will just keep growing.  This is great for 
ensuring articles with caching turned on don't disappear due to expiring in 
the news spool, but as eternity grows more popular it will become impossible 
for each single eternity server to hold the full document store.

The solution to this problem is quite complex, and is the subject of the next 
implementation effort on the mailing list.  One interim solution is to use the 
USENET searching facilities of services which archive USENET such as 
www.dejanews.com and www.altavista.digital.com.

There are several tweaks that would have to be done to be able to use USENET 
archivers as sources of eternity documents.  Two main problems have to be 
combated: 1) the archives make attempts not to archive 7-bit encoded binaries 
to save space, 2) you can't search by 40 character hex numbers to find subject
fields.  These are both easy to overcome, but the overall solution is not that 
attractive because the archivers will be a single point of failure.  Censors 
will attack them, and they may be hostile to eternity servers due to our 
bypassing their 7-bit encoding filters and consuming space on their soon to be
multiple TB raid file servers.

A better solution is to build a distributed data store that allows eternity 
servers to exchange documents with each other in such a way that the eternity 
servers together form a virtual raid file-server where the documents are 
spread randomly and redundantly over the nodes.

A simple starting point to allow this is to create a second long-term cache 
area, and to have a cache replacement policy for that area which selects a 
random document for discarding.  This cache replacement policy will ensure 
that statistically some servers will have a given document.  Next we have to 
design a scalable method of forwarding requests to other servers to ask for 
old USENET articles by URL hash (subject field).


World-FS
======================================================================

Another approach to improving the eternity server is to actually use and 
develop the full set of techniques described in Ross Anderson's paper to build 
a distributed file system (DFS).  I dub this direction `world-FS' because the 
aim is to build a worldwide distributed, redundant, uncensorable, and virtual 
file system.  This file system would be designed to withstand a nuclear war, 
and to easily withstand the best efforts of one government to censor material 
in it.  A world-FS done well could easily replace the current pattern of web 
page hosting.  

The world-FS would have different interfaces, or drivers, to allow it to be 
accessed as an NFS file system, or as a distributed web based eternity service.
The eternity server described in this document would then be superseded, and 
become the HTTP driver interface for world-FS.  An FTP, or NNTP (USENET news) 
interface could also be built for the world-FS, or for parts of it's directory 
tree.  People discussing this so far have thought that you would need to 
include ability to pay for service with an anonymous payment system (or with
multiple payment systems).

The eternity mailing list is also for discussion of world-FS, as it all falls 
under the umbrella of Ross Anderson's concept of an `eternity service'.


Comments and collaboration requested
======================================================================

Your contribution matters.  Progress of the eternity service beyond this point 
relies on a collaborative effort.

You can collaborate by doing any of the following and reporting back to the 
eternity mailing list how you got on (subscription instructions below):

    - submitting documents to the eternity document store
    - installing an public access eternity server in your account
    - or persuading your ISP to install one
    - or installing a private eternity server in your account
    - finding and reporting bugs to the mailing list
    - contributing code
    - contributing ideas for more efficient distributed request protocols

Adam Back


More information
======================================================================

Eternity mailing list

    send message "subscribe eternity" to majordomo@internexus.net

The eternity mailing list is for eternity service users, eternity server
operators, and eternity server developers to discuss issues to do with 
eternity.  Issues include censorship attempts, operator liability, practical 
attacks on the security, and discussion of new protocols, and discussion 
amongst developers and users on the best way to design the next versions.


Cypherpunks mailing list

Cypherpunks write code.  Cypherpunks are the people who bought you type I and 
type II remailers, remailer clients, plus many, many other crypto applications.
Governments are scared of the implications of distributed systems and freedom 
to use cryptographic code.  Cypherpunks are crypto-anarchists, and they shall 
inherit the earth.  Information is power, and cypherpunks are applied 
cryptographers with attitude.  They don't care if governments don't like their 
code, in fact they probably view it as a compliment.  You'd be surprised at how
many cryptographers, net journalists, cryptographic consultants, small ISP 
owners, and Netizens are crypto-anarchists at heart.  Netizens never were very 
keen on government intrusions into the 'Net.  Read Tim May's Cyphernomicon for 
a mega-faq on cypherpunks, and crypto-anarchy.  See:

    http://www.cc.oberlin.edu/~brchkind/cyphernomicon/

To subscribe to cypherpunks:

    send message "subscribe cypherpunks" to majordomo@cyberpass.net
or  send message "subscribe cypherpunks" to majordomo@algebra.com
or  send message "subscribe cypherpunks" to majordomo@ssz.com

(Some time ago there was an attempt to impose moderation on the cypherpunks 
list, and this is the reason for this rather curious situation of multiple 
mailing lists, it is designed to be more resilient to censorship -- if someone 
pulls the plug on one list -- the rest continue without glitch.)

Cypherpunks is a high volume mailing list.  There is no moderator,

Software

    http://www.cypherspace.org/~adam/eternity/

Please set a server up a public access eternity serve in your account.  You 
can also operate your own eternity server for your own use -- this is the more
secure way to browse eternity.  If you have any kind of dial up or internet 
connected Unix system you can do this.

You'll need a web account with cgi capability, access to perl5, and read 
access to an NNTP news server, or a local news spool.  Cron access is useful 
but not essential.

